guide.md, before:

## Introduction

Formbot Voron 2.4 kits are generally a good value (high quality, inexpensive) but they include a bunch of Mods, so their build process differs from official Voron.  This divergence is poorly documented.  This document is our attempt to provide a detailed build guide for Formbot Voron 2.4 kits.

Please report any incorrect or missing info here on github or in the Voron or Formbot Discord.


## Types of kits

Formbot has sold a couple of different Voron 2.4 kits, and it's a bit unclear how they've changed.  We'll try to collect the info here, please update this document where it is incomplete or incorrect.


### "Voron 2.4 R2 Pro+ CoreXY 3D Printer Kit with M8P+CB1 Board and Canbus Wiring System" (ordered 2024-06-23)

Advertised features:
* TAP leveling sensor
* Filament runout sensor
* LED chamber illumination
* Nevermore air filter
* EBB SB2209 CAN (RP2020) (note errata here: <https://github.com/bigtreetech/EBB/issues/88#issuecomment-2120227957>)
* EBB SB0000 CAN
* 5" HDMI touch screen
* Stealthburner + CW2
* Manta M8P + CB1 motherboard
* Gates belts
* 440C linear guide rails

Differences from mainline Voron 2.4:
* Bakelite spacers under the bed instead of M4 thumb nuts
* CAN toolhead board
* Umbillical toolhead wiring instead of cable chains

Noteworthy details:
* Uses standard microswitch XY endstops, not hall effect.


## The build process

A list of tools used to assemble the kit: [tools](tools.md)

These build instructions will reference the following manuals:
- [The Voron 2.4R2 Assembly Manual](https://github.com/VoronDesign/Voron-2/raw/Voron2.4/Manual/Assembly_Manual_2.4r2.pdf)
- [The Stealthburner Assembly Manual](https://github.com/VoronDesign/Voron-Stealthburner/raw/main/Manual/Assembly_Manual_SB.pdf)
- [The Voron Tap Assembly Manual](https://github.com/VoronDesign/Voron-Tap/blob/main/Manual/Assembly_Manual_Tap.pdf)
- [The Formbot wiring guide](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19wdkwaP-MP6JrulkZ-r0Kav1kbvxzPzk/view?usp=sharing)
- [Pinout diagram for your controller](https://docs.vorondesign.com/build/electrical/controller_wiring.html#voron-2)

Build sequence:

| Manual               | Pages   | Comment
|----------------------|---------|---
| Voron 2.4R2          | 1-27    | Smooth sailing.
|                      | 28      | Be sure to remove all protective paper or plastic film from both sides of the Deck Panel before mounting.  When mounted, the upper face of the Deck Panel will be visible inside the printer, and the lower face will be hidden inside the electronics bay under the printer.  So select whichever face you want to see all the time to face upwards.
|                      | 29      | On 250, mount the DIN rails as shown in the Voron 2.4R2 Manual (you may have to shorten them slightly to fit).  On 300 (and 350?) turn the DIN rails 90 degrees and mount them parallel with the Bed Extrusions.
|                      | 30-38   |
|                      | 39      | If you build a 300x300 Formbot turn one of the motors 90 degrees so that the cable is on the same side as the two screws of the bracket, this will be Z1 later
|                      | 40-53   |
|                      | 54      | After carefully installing the flexplate magnet onto the aluminum bed plate, you need to cut away part of the magnet to expose the four bed plate mounting holes.  Note that you do *not* need to cut away the magnet over the two threaded holes near the rear edge of the plate, because these will be accessed from below, not from above.  Locate the bed plate mounting holes by drilling through the magnet from below, using the four existing holes as guides, then cut the magnet using a sharp knife.  ![](/images/flexplate-magnet-holes.jpg)
|                      | 55-57   |
|                      | 58      | The Formbot kit comes with "Bakelite Isolation Columns", use these instead of M4 nuts as spacers.  ![](/images/bakelite-isolation-columns.png)
|                      | 59-83   |
|                      | 84      | Do not install heat-set threaded inserts into the cable chain mount, the Formbot kit uses an umbilical instead of cable chains.
|                      | 85-103  |
|                      | 104     | Do not install the cable chain mount, use M5x10 BHCS to attach both XY Joints to the gantry.
|                      | 105-109 |
|                      | 110     | Use the part for normal microswitch endstops (`z_joint_upper`), not the Hall effect version.
|                      | 111-113 |
|                      | 114     | Consider using @Nero3D's trick to hang the gantry <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEl5FNvi8Bs&t=10489s>, or using @andimoto's "Voron v2.4 Gantry Installation Hooks" <https://www.printables.com/model/173635-voron-v24-gantry-installation-hook-new-version>
|                      | 115-129 |
| Voron TAP            | 1-29    |
| Voron 2.4R2          | 131-142 |
| Voron TAP            | 31-36   |
| Stealthburner        | 1-58    | note cabeling will be different, for this check the Formbot wiering PDF, also note there are two different dimentions of PTFE tube included, choose the correct one.
| Voron 2.4R2          | 148-155 | Don't mount anything. Also note there's no 5V PSU but instead a extra PCB
|                      | 156     | Dont forget to change the fuse, it's shipped with a 10A fuse. It should be changed for a 4A for 230V and 8A for 110V
|                      | 157     |
|                      | 158-161 | Skip these pages!
|                      | 162-167 |
|                      | 168-174 | Skip these pages!
|                      | 175-177 |
| Formbot Wiring guide | 1-4     | Mount the components as shown on the image, note that is the 350x350 so if you build a smaller printer it will be tighter. There's a picture further down in this guide with what is what.
| Voron V2.4R2         | 180-193 | This won't be 100% correct as there's no 5V PSU and there's an extra PCB, be carefull here.
|                      | 194-199 | Mount cables in chains before mounting chains as it will be hard to do otherwise. Also don't forgett the extra LED cable which is separat from the other cable (if your kit is newer then mine it's sold with CAN-bus and this will be totally different as you probably won't have cable chains at all)
|                      | 200     | The B-motor cable is routed in the grove under the gantry with a plastic strip instead of zipties, see image under notes below
|                      | 201-204 |

Voron V2.4R2 & Formbot Wiring PDF: Attach cables between breakout board and controll board. When you have attached the last few cables you are mostly done with what you can do now, don't forgett to download and install the [Big tree tech PI version](https://github.com/bigtreetech/BTT-Pi) and from it flash the octopus board via the other smaller included SD-card.

[Software Configuration](https://docs.vorondesign.com/build/software/configuration.html)

Now follow the post build instructions to make sure you've done everything correct


## Notes from the build

### The printed parts kit from Formbot
- As my old printer had acted up I decided to buy a kit of parts from Formbot (instead of using the print it forward program). This kit was mostly fine but there are three templates used when mounting the rails on the extrusion. I'm guessing most people who buy this kit of printed parts don't have a working printer at the moment. It would be nice if these were included. I guess some would have a printer that could print these in PLA but still. It's three very small parts to include I would happily pay an extra few bucks for. They are avalible in in the Voron STL's as **MGN12_rail_guide_x2.stl**, **MGN9_rail_guide_x2.stl** and **pulley_jig.stl**.

- A quick note about that [kit](https://www.formbot3d.com/products/high-quality-3d-printed-parts-for-voron-24-pro-kit?VariantsId=11047), it also would be nice if they linked what filament they used so that one could print new matching parts when done.

- One of these printed parts was I bit to tight. The part holds the gantry together. One of the A-B belt weels got too pinched. This happens, the tolarances are very fine. I shimed the part with two layers of craft paper and it now works perfectly.

- The bracket for the cables between the smaller cable chains shown on page 204 of the Voron 2.4R2 PDF was a bit to tight (see image above), I used a drillbit and just removed some plastic by hand. It's also hard to cram all cables and a cable sleeve into, if I did not plan on modding the printer with a canbus I would probalby redesign this.

- The Voron Tap plate is different from the Voron documentation, this is the R8 version. See differances in image below.
![](/images/SB_mount.jpg)
Original tap design:
![](/images/SB_original_mount.png)

- The tap plate also did not have the cone guiding you to the correct depth of the heatset incerts. Not sure why this has been changed.
![](/images/tap_unclear_depth_heatset_incerts.jpeg)
How the original STL looks:
![](/images/tap_cone.png)


- The arm to cables mounted on the back of the Clockwork 2 is the wrong color. Not a big deal, just be aware when looking for it.

- Bending the mounts with a screwdriver helped with negitioating them to bend the way they need to.
![](/images/stiff_mount_tip.jpeg)

### Notes

For anyone new here's a breakdown of what is what.
![](/images/what_is_what.png)

RED - Motor turned 90 degrees (Formbot 300X300 kit)

PINK - This is the on off switch for the heated bed, it's not an invertor as one might think. In the Voron documentation this is called the AC BED CONTROL. To be specific this is a Solid State Relay (SSR). 

YELLOW - PSU, the powersupply. In the Voron documentation this is called the LRS-200-24 PSU.

GREEN - RASPBERRY PI.

DARK BLUE - Controller. This board controlles the motors and is basically a break out board. Before Klipper this board used to run on Marlin and there was no PI. It's a bit confusing. Just know this is refered to as the CONTROLLER BOARD in the Voron documentation.

LIGHT BLUE - Break out board (this is replaced with canbus is later kits)

ORANGE - This is Formbots own PCB, in the Voron documentation this is the same as using the WAGO clamps.

- The plastic bracket included in the kit which is for a SBB EBB board isn't needed. Just skip this.
![](/images/not_needed_bracket.jpeg)

- To mount the SBB EBB break out board i used M3x6 screws from the kit.

- The Bearings on page 17 of the Stealthburner PDF are different from the ones in the kit. Not a problem, just be aware.
![](/images/other_bearings.jpeg)

- There's no z endstop included because of TAP, there's also no 5V PSU included because the BTT PI runs on 24V. Not a problem, just be aware so you don't spend time searching for items that simply aren't there.

- Don't forget to change the fuse. It might be hard to know where to find it. Here's an image. 4A for 230V and 8A for 110V. Here's the nice explaination I got "The Bed has 650 Watt + PSU 200 Watt...  850 Watt / 230V = 3,7 Amp".
![](/images/fuse.jpeg)

- On page 163 one of the Voron 2.4R2 PDF the limit switches are installed a different way then the once in the kit, this does not make a difference, it's just a bit confusing.
![](/images/voron_limit_switch.png)
![](/images/wrongly_mounted_switch.jpeg)

- I found it to be unclear how many of what panel mounts are needed. But the STLs actually says that I noticed later. For instance bottom_panel_clip_x4.stl, the x4 is the amout needed. I printed these in PLA for now. I need the panels to print ABS so it's a bit of a catch 22.

- The cable chains are a bit too long, you can remove links so this really isn't an issue. Rather nice having a few extra. A tip is to mount the ends separatly and connect them once all the cables are inside (as the snaps closing the chain will face down towards the 20x20 extrusion).
![](/images/Cable_chain_too_long.jpeg)
![](/images/cable_chain_tip.jpeg)

- B-motor cable route, used instead of zipties
![](/images/A_B_motor_cable.jpeg)

- From what I remember, the kit said to include a nevermore filter. It dosen't. It does include some hardware, fans, coal, WAGO-clips, a cable, some screws. But it does not include the plastic parts. This is a bit of an issue. I would want the filter to print ABS, but to do so I need to print the filter, in ABS. I opted to first print all panel clips in PLA and then print the nevermore parts with a window open. The printer isn't tuned properly but I also don't want to do that without the filter. So this is good enough for now. When the printer is tuned I will reprint this. 

- I can also say mounting this was hell, getting the heated bed back in place took some time. As you can see I choose to print the [V6 version](https://github.com/nevermore3d/Nevermore_Micro/tree/master/V6) and not the [Formbot version](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13Aie-BDK4WHfmduJOtDo85zog0QI33kh/view) (if link is broken, they can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13Aie-BDK4WHfmduJOtDo85zog0QI33kh/view)). I didn't have a JST connector over so I've temporarily used other connectors.
![](/images/never_more_temp_connectors.jpeg)

- As you can see the non tuned printer has a bit of work ahead before it prints well.
![](/images/untuned_printer_0.jpeg)
![](/images/untuned_printer_1.jpeg)

- As there were more 1mm foam-tape included I also added it to the inside of the doors which made a real impact.

- When installing the Fly-ADXL345-USB (Mellow Fly used for imput shaping) I had some issues, first with getting the board into BOOTSEL mode and late when flashing. The first issue I have no idea of how it happened. I did the same thing about 50 times and all of a sudden it worked. The second issue was a typo from my side, please don't forget `/dev/serial/by-id/` in this command 
```bash
make KCONFIG_CONFIG=config.adxl345 flash FLASH_DEVICE=/dev/serial/by-id/usb-katapult_rp2040_E662549553812C2B-if00
```

## Summary
All in all it's been a fun build. It now prints parts and seems happy. It took some time getting the config correct with all pins. I also mounted some led strips at the top of the chamber. I was a bit affraid of crashing the whole printer badly but thanks to the well written [initial setup guide](https://docs.vorondesign.com/build/startup/) everything work out fine. Just remember TAP will figure out where true Z is. Make sure to put you `z_offset` to what it should be. I used TBD and that seems to work okay. Also remember there is a huge community, I asked for help several times when I needed it. Just be mindful it's a community and not a support. I'm really happy I toke this project on and built what seems like a printer that will be my new working horse. Looking forward on tweeking it and improving print quality, one commit at a time.

If you're interested in my config files they are available [here](https://github.com/Zev-se/voron_2.4_config).

Commit message:

move xy limit switch info to the main guide, note it's for the older kit

guide.md, after:

## Introduction

Formbot Voron 2.4 kits are generally a good value (high quality, inexpensive) but they include a bunch of Mods, so their build process differs from official Voron.  This divergence is poorly documented.  This document is our attempt to provide a detailed build guide for Formbot Voron 2.4 kits.

Please report any incorrect or missing info here on github or in the Voron or Formbot Discord.


## Types of kits

Formbot has sold a couple of different Voron 2.4 kits, and it's a bit unclear how they've changed.  We'll try to collect the info here, please update this document where it is incomplete or incorrect.


### "Voron 2.4 R2 Pro+ CoreXY 3D Printer Kit with M8P+CB1 Board and Canbus Wiring System" (ordered 2024-06-23)

Advertised features:
* TAP leveling sensor
* Filament runout sensor
* LED chamber illumination
* Nevermore air filter
* EBB SB2209 CAN (RP2020) (note errata here: <https://github.com/bigtreetech/EBB/issues/88#issuecomment-2120227957>)
* EBB SB0000 CAN
* 5" HDMI touch screen
* Stealthburner + CW2
* Manta M8P + CB1 motherboard
* Gates belts
* 440C linear guide rails

Differences from mainline Voron 2.4:
* Bakelite spacers under the bed instead of M4 thumb nuts
* CAN toolhead board
* Umbillical toolhead wiring instead of cable chains

Noteworthy details:
* Uses standard microswitch XY endstops, not hall effect.


## The build process

A list of tools used to assemble the kit: [tools](tools.md)

These build instructions will reference the following manuals:
- [The Voron 2.4R2 Assembly Manual](https://github.com/VoronDesign/Voron-2/raw/Voron2.4/Manual/Assembly_Manual_2.4r2.pdf)
- [The Stealthburner Assembly Manual](https://github.com/VoronDesign/Voron-Stealthburner/raw/main/Manual/Assembly_Manual_SB.pdf)
- [The Voron Tap Assembly Manual](https://github.com/VoronDesign/Voron-Tap/blob/main/Manual/Assembly_Manual_Tap.pdf)
- [The Formbot wiring guide](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19wdkwaP-MP6JrulkZ-r0Kav1kbvxzPzk/view?usp=sharing)
- [Pinout diagram for your controller](https://docs.vorondesign.com/build/electrical/controller_wiring.html#voron-2)

Build sequence:

| Manual               | Pages   | Comment
|----------------------|---------|---
| Voron 2.4R2          | 1-27    | Smooth sailing.
|                      | 28      | Be sure to remove all protective paper or plastic film from both sides of the Deck Panel before mounting.  When mounted, the upper face of the Deck Panel will be visible inside the printer, and the lower face will be hidden inside the electronics bay under the printer.  So select whichever face you want to see all the time to face upwards.
|                      | 29      | On 250, mount the DIN rails as shown in the Voron 2.4R2 Manual (you may have to shorten them slightly to fit).  On 300 (and 350?) turn the DIN rails 90 degrees and mount them parallel with the Bed Extrusions.
|                      | 30-38   |
|                      | 39      | If you build a 300x300 Formbot turn one of the motors 90 degrees so that the cable is on the same side as the two screws of the bracket, this will be Z1 later
|                      | 40-53   |
|                      | 54      | After carefully installing the flexplate magnet onto the aluminum bed plate, you need to cut away part of the magnet to expose the four bed plate mounting holes.  Note that you do *not* need to cut away the magnet over the two threaded holes near the rear edge of the plate, because these will be accessed from below, not from above.  Locate the bed plate mounting holes by drilling through the magnet from below, using the four existing holes as guides, then cut the magnet using a sharp knife.  ![](/images/flexplate-magnet-holes.jpg)
|                      | 55-57   |
|                      | 58      | The Formbot kit comes with "Bakelite Isolation Columns", use these instead of M4 nuts as spacers.  ![](/images/bakelite-isolation-columns.png)
|                      | 59-83   |
|                      | 84      | Do not install heat-set threaded inserts into the cable chain mount, the Formbot kit uses an umbilical instead of cable chains.
|                      | 85-103  |
|                      | 104     | Do not install the cable chain mount, use M5x10 BHCS to attach both XY Joints to the gantry.
|                      | 105-109 |
|                      | 110     | Use the part for normal microswitch endstops (`z_joint_upper`), not the Hall effect version.
|                      | 111-113 |
|                      | 114     | Consider using @Nero3D's trick to hang the gantry <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEl5FNvi8Bs&t=10489s>, or using @andimoto's "Voron v2.4 Gantry Installation Hooks" <https://www.printables.com/model/173635-voron-v24-gantry-installation-hook-new-version>
|                      | 115-129 |
| Voron TAP            | 1-29    |
| Voron 2.4R2          | 131-142 |
| Voron TAP            | 31-36   |
| Stealthburner        | 1-58    | note cabeling will be different, for this check the Formbot wiering PDF, also note there are two different dimentions of PTFE tube included, choose the correct one.
| Voron 2.4R2          | 148-155 | Don't mount anything. Also note there's no 5V PSU but instead a extra PCB
|                      | 156     | Dont forget to change the fuse, it's shipped with a 10A fuse. It should be changed for a 4A for 230V and 8A for 110V
|                      | 157     |
|                      | 158-161 | Skip these pages!
|                      | 162     |
|                      | 163     | The older version of the kit mounts the limit switches in a different way than mainline Voron: ![](/images/voron_limit_switch.png) ![](/images/wrongly_mounted_switch.jpeg)
|                      | 164-167 |
|                      | 168-174 | Skip these pages!
|                      | 175-177 |
| Formbot Wiring guide | 1-4     | Mount the components as shown on the image, note that is the 350x350 so if you build a smaller printer it will be tighter. There's a picture further down in this guide with what is what.
| Voron V2.4R2         | 180-193 | This won't be 100% correct as there's no 5V PSU and there's an extra PCB, be carefull here.
|                      | 194-199 | Mount cables in chains before mounting chains as it will be hard to do otherwise. Also don't forgett the extra LED cable which is separat from the other cable (if your kit is newer then mine it's sold with CAN-bus and this will be totally different as you probably won't have cable chains at all)
|                      | 200     | The B-motor cable is routed in the grove under the gantry with a plastic strip instead of zipties, see image under notes below
|                      | 201-204 |

Voron V2.4R2 & Formbot Wiring PDF: Attach cables between breakout board and controll board. When you have attached the last few cables you are mostly done with what you can do now, don't forgett to download and install the [Big tree tech PI version](https://github.com/bigtreetech/BTT-Pi) and from it flash the octopus board via the other smaller included SD-card.

[Software Configuration](https://docs.vorondesign.com/build/software/configuration.html)

Now follow the post build instructions to make sure you've done everything correct


## Notes from the build

### The printed parts kit from Formbot
- As my old printer had acted up I decided to buy a kit of parts from Formbot (instead of using the print it forward program). This kit was mostly fine but there are three templates used when mounting the rails on the extrusion. I'm guessing most people who buy this kit of printed parts don't have a working printer at the moment. It would be nice if these were included. I guess some would have a printer that could print these in PLA but still. It's three very small parts to include I would happily pay an extra few bucks for. They are avalible in in the Voron STL's as **MGN12_rail_guide_x2.stl**, **MGN9_rail_guide_x2.stl** and **pulley_jig.stl**.

- A quick note about that [kit](https://www.formbot3d.com/products/high-quality-3d-printed-parts-for-voron-24-pro-kit?VariantsId=11047), it also would be nice if they linked what filament they used so that one could print new matching parts when done.

- One of these printed parts was I bit to tight. The part holds the gantry together. One of the A-B belt weels got too pinched. This happens, the tolarances are very fine. I shimed the part with two layers of craft paper and it now works perfectly.

- The bracket for the cables between the smaller cable chains shown on page 204 of the Voron 2.4R2 PDF was a bit to tight (see image above), I used a drillbit and just removed some plastic by hand. It's also hard to cram all cables and a cable sleeve into, if I did not plan on modding the printer with a canbus I would probalby redesign this.

- The Voron Tap plate is different from the Voron documentation, this is the R8 version. See differances in image below.
![](/images/SB_mount.jpg)
Original tap design:
![](/images/SB_original_mount.png)

- The tap plate also did not have the cone guiding you to the correct depth of the heatset incerts. Not sure why this has been changed.
![](/images/tap_unclear_depth_heatset_incerts.jpeg)
How the original STL looks:
![](/images/tap_cone.png)


- The arm to cables mounted on the back of the Clockwork 2 is the wrong color. Not a big deal, just be aware when looking for it.

- Bending the mounts with a screwdriver helped with negitioating them to bend the way they need to.
![](/images/stiff_mount_tip.jpeg)

### Notes

For anyone new here's a breakdown of what is what.
![](/images/what_is_what.png)

RED - Motor turned 90 degrees (Formbot 300X300 kit)

PINK - This is the on off switch for the heated bed, it's not an invertor as one might think. In the Voron documentation this is called the AC BED CONTROL. To be specific this is a Solid State Relay (SSR). 

YELLOW - PSU, the powersupply. In the Voron documentation this is called the LRS-200-24 PSU.

GREEN - RASPBERRY PI.

DARK BLUE - Controller. This board controlles the motors and is basically a break out board. Before Klipper this board used to run on Marlin and there was no PI. It's a bit confusing. Just know this is refered to as the CONTROLLER BOARD in the Voron documentation.

LIGHT BLUE - Break out board (this is replaced with canbus is later kits)

ORANGE - This is Formbots own PCB, in the Voron documentation this is the same as using the WAGO clamps.

- The plastic bracket included in the kit which is for a SBB EBB board isn't needed. Just skip this.
![](/images/not_needed_bracket.jpeg)

- To mount the SBB EBB break out board i used M3x6 screws from the kit.

- The Bearings on page 17 of the Stealthburner PDF are different from the ones in the kit. Not a problem, just be aware.
![](/images/other_bearings.jpeg)

- There's no z endstop included because of TAP, there's also no 5V PSU included because the BTT PI runs on 24V. Not a problem, just be aware so you don't spend time searching for items that simply aren't there.

- Don't forget to change the fuse. It might be hard to know where to find it. Here's an image. 4A for 230V and 8A for 110V. Here's the nice explaination I got "The Bed has 650 Watt + PSU 200 Watt...  850 Watt / 230V = 3,7 Amp".
![](/images/fuse.jpeg)

- I found it to be unclear how many of what panel mounts are needed. But the STLs actually says that I noticed later. For instance bottom_panel_clip_x4.stl, the x4 is the amout needed. I printed these in PLA for now. I need the panels to print ABS so it's a bit of a catch 22.

- The cable chains are a bit too long, you can remove links so this really isn't an issue. Rather nice having a few extra. A tip is to mount the ends separatly and connect them once all the cables are inside (as the snaps closing the chain will face down towards the 20x20 extrusion).
![](/images/Cable_chain_too_long.jpeg)
![](/images/cable_chain_tip.jpeg)

- B-motor cable route, used instead of zipties
![](/images/A_B_motor_cable.jpeg)

- From what I remember, the kit said to include a nevermore filter. It dosen't. It does include some hardware, fans, coal, WAGO-clips, a cable, some screws. But it does not include the plastic parts. This is a bit of an issue. I would want the filter to print ABS, but to do so I need to print the filter, in ABS. I opted to first print all panel clips in PLA and then print the nevermore parts with a window open. The printer isn't tuned properly but I also don't want to do that without the filter. So this is good enough for now. When the printer is tuned I will reprint this. 

- I can also say mounting this was hell, getting the heated bed back in place took some time. As you can see I choose to print the [V6 version](https://github.com/nevermore3d/Nevermore_Micro/tree/master/V6) and not the [Formbot version](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13Aie-BDK4WHfmduJOtDo85zog0QI33kh/view) (if link is broken, they can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13Aie-BDK4WHfmduJOtDo85zog0QI33kh/view)). I didn't have a JST connector over so I've temporarily used other connectors.
![](/images/never_more_temp_connectors.jpeg)

- As you can see the non tuned printer has a bit of work ahead before it prints well.
![](/images/untuned_printer_0.jpeg)
![](/images/untuned_printer_1.jpeg)

- As there were more 1mm foam-tape included I also added it to the inside of the doors which made a real impact.

- When installing the Fly-ADXL345-USB (Mellow Fly used for imput shaping) I had some issues, first with getting the board into BOOTSEL mode and late when flashing. The first issue I have no idea of how it happened. I did the same thing about 50 times and all of a sudden it worked. The second issue was a typo from my side, please don't forget `/dev/serial/by-id/` in this command 
```bash
make KCONFIG_CONFIG=config.adxl345 flash FLASH_DEVICE=/dev/serial/by-id/usb-katapult_rp2040_E662549553812C2B-if00
```

## Summary
All in all it's been a fun build. It now prints parts and seems happy. It took some time getting the config correct with all pins. I also mounted some led strips at the top of the chamber. I was a bit affraid of crashing the whole printer badly but thanks to the well written [initial setup guide](https://docs.vorondesign.com/build/startup/) everything work out fine. Just remember TAP will figure out where true Z is. Make sure to put you `z_offset` to what it should be. I used TBD and that seems to work okay. Also remember there is a huge community, I asked for help several times when I needed it. Just be mindful it's a community and not a support. I'm really happy I toke this project on and built what seems like a printer that will be my new working horse. Looking forward on tweeking it and improving print quality, one commit at a time.

If you're interested in my config files they are available [here](https://github.com/Zev-se/voron_2.4_config).
